## 2. Local Search for Max Cut

(a) For upper bound, consider that every iteration will cause the cut edge number increased by at least 1, and the max cut edge number is $|E|$
$\therefore |E|$ is the upper bound.

(b) When the algorithm terminates, it means no vertex inside $S$ or $T$ that be moved can increase the cut edge number. Also it means for every vertex $v$ in S, it has less number of neighbors in $S$ than $T$, otherwise we can move it, and for every vertex $v$ in T, it has less number of neighbors in $T$ than $S$, otherwise we can move it.

$\therefore $ the number of cut edge is $$|E|-\sum_{v\in S}(\text{edges inside S})-\sum_{v\in T}(\text{edges inside T}) \geq \frac{|E|}{2}$$

## 3. Randomization for Approximation

(a) Consider Max 3-SAT: given an instance with m clauses each containing exactly 3 distinct literals, find the assignment that satisfies as many of them as possible. Come up with a simple randomized algorithm that will achieve an approximation factor of $\dfrac{7}{8}$ in expectation. That is, if the optimal solution satisfies c clauses, your algorithm should produce an assignment that satisfies at least $\dfrac{7c}{8}$ clauses in expectation.

Just simply assigning each variable a random value in $\{True, False\}$, $\therefore $ for each clause $X_i$(1 if clause $i$ satisfied, otherwise 0), the expectation $\mathbb{E}(X_i)= 1-(\frac{1}{2})^3=\frac{7}{8}$, by linearity of expectation, result $= n\cdot\frac{7}{8}\geq \frac{7c}{8}$, since $c$ is at most the total number of clauses $n$

(b) Given a Max 3-SAT instance $I$, let $OPT_I$ denote the maximum fraction of clauses in $I$ satisfied by any variable assignment. What is the smallest value of $OPT_I$ over all instances I? In other words, what is minI $OPT_I$?

By (a), we know that min  $OPT_I = \frac{7n}{8}$

## 4. Reservoir Variations

(a)

```java
int counter = 0;
int curr = 0;
While Stream comes in x:
    counter ++;
    curr = x with possibility 1/counter;
return curr

```
**Proof of correctness:** the probability that $x_t$ is outputted at time $t'> t$ , observe that $x_t$ must be chosen and then never replaced.
$$\begin{aligned}
P & =P(\text{curr be replaced at }t)* P(\text{not be replaced after}) \\
& =\frac{1}{t}* [(1-\frac{1}{t+1})*(1-\frac{1}{t+2})\cdots*(1-\frac{1}{t'})] \\ 
& =\frac{1}{t'}
\end{aligned}$$

(b) 
If $S$ not contain a duplicate element, then $S$'s max len is $n$ instead $2n$.

**Algorithm:** make $log n$ copies of the algorithm from (a), when a new element x arrives, check all the copy to see if one of them's curr value == x, if it is, output x as duplicate element, otherwise continue by the algorithm and steam. After the steam is over, output 'failed'

**Proof of correctness:** Let's analyze the possibility for output 'failed', for each algorithm in (a), let consider it ended at curr == $t$, by (a) we know $t$ is distributed uniformly at random in $\{x_1,\cdots,x_2n\}$. In order to output 'failed', $t$ must not occurs after. Also we know that there are at most $n$ indices $t$ such that element $x_t$ never occurs after index $t$.
$\therefore $ each copy of algorithm in (a) has chance $\dfrac{n}{2n}=\dfrac{1}{2}$ failed.
$\Rightarrow $ total possibility is $(\dfrac{1}{2})^{logn} = \dfrac{1}{n}$


## 5. Streaming Integers

(a)
```python
sum = 0 # only 1 bit
while x come in:
    sum += x//2
```

(b)
```python
sum = 0 # sum will no more than N
while x come in:
    sum += x//N
```

(c) 
```python
while x come in:
    check whether x//N
```

(d)
```python
s1, s2, ..., sr = 0 # keep track for each prime factorization
while x come in:
    for pi in [p1,p2,..,pr]:
        si += max(t for x//(pi**t) == 0) # find the maximum t such that pi**t divides the x.
if all(si >= ki):
    return True
```
