## 2. Adding Many Edges At Once

Given an undirected，weighted graph $G(V, E)$,consider the following algorithm to find the minimum spanning tree. This algorithm is similar to Prim's, except rather than growing out a spanning tree from one vertex, it tries to grow out the spanning tree from every vertex at the same time.

**Algorithm:**

```python
def findMST(G(V,E)):
    tree = None
    while tree != MST:
        #Let S1,S2 . ..Sk be the connected components of the graph with vertices V and edges T
        Et = [edge for edge in tree]
        [S1,S2,..,Sk] = make_connected_components(V,Et) 
        # For each i ∈ {1,... , k}, let ei be the minimum-weight edge with exactly one endpoint in Si;
        e = set(ei for ei in min_edge([S1,S2,..,Sk])) # using set because some ei maybe equal.
        # T = T U {e1, e2,. . .ek }

        tree.grow(e)
    
    return tree
```

**Correctness:**

$e_i$ be the minimum-weight edge with exactly one endpoint in $S_i$ means it is the cut crossing, so according to cut theory, we should add this edge.

(b) worst-case:
every pair cc will provide tow the same $e_i$. 
$$S_1 \rightleftarrows^{e_1}_{e_2} S_2$$
In this case the k decreasing by $k//2$, and k start at |V|, $\therefore \log(|V|)$ times iteration
Total runtime:$\Omicron(\log(|V|\cdot|E|))$ == Prim's

## 3. Minimum $\infty$-Norm Cut

Given an connected undirected，positive weighted graph $G(V, E)$,  and you are asked to find a cut in the graph where the largest edge in the cut is as small as possible.

Hint:

* The smallest cut edge will be in the MST. $\rightleftarrows$ The largest cut edge will be in the maximum ST.

$\therefore $ find maximum ST will, and find the smallest edge inside will solve the problem.

1. negative all edge's weight in G to get G' $\Omicron(|E|+|V|)$
2. find_MST(G's), which will give us the maximum ST of G. $\Omicron(|E|\log(|V|))$ for prim's
3. find the min edge.$\Omicron(|V|)$

**Total Runtime:** $\Omicron(|E|\log(|V|)+|E|+|V|)$

## 4. Firefighters

Given a undirected graph $G(V,E)$ with N vertexes from 0,1,...N - 1, also are given a matrix D such that,for each pair of vertex (a,b)，$D[a][b]$ is the distance of the shortest path between a and b.
We want to pick K distinct cities and build fire stations there.For each city without a fire station, the response time for that city is given by distance to tne nearest city with fire station, the response time for a city with a fire station to be 0. Let R be the maximum response time among all cities. We want to create an assignment of fire stations to cities such that R is as small as possible.
Ask a greedy algorithm to out put $R_g \leq 2 \cdot R_{opt}$

**Algorithm:**

1. Choose a arbitrary city to place fire station first.
2. place the next fire station in the city that has farthest distance from the first city.
3. choose the city that has farthest distance Sum from the pre cities, loop k times.

**Prove:** 
Hint: using contradiction instead of induction in graph is normal.

1. $$R_g \leq 2 \cdot R_opt \to^{contradict} R_g > 2 \cdot R_opt$$
2. define $[G_1,G_2,\cdots]$ to be the fire station city according to our algorithm.
   $$\begin{aligned}
    & \therefore dist(G_1,G_2) = R_1, \quad dist(G_1,G_{other}) \leq R_1, \quad dist(G_i,G_j) \geq R_g > 2 \cdot R_{opt} 
   \end{aligned} $$
3. consider the set S of these K+1 cities: the K fire centers and v is the furthest city away from fire stations.
   $$\begin{aligned}
    & S = [G_1,G_2,\cdots,G_k, v],\quad min(D[G_i][v]) = R_g
    \\
    & \therefore a,b \in S,\quad D[a][b] > 2\cdot R_{opt}
    \\
    & \because D[a][b] \leq D[a][s] +D[s][b] \leq 2R_{opt},\text{ s is the optimal fire station}
   \end{aligned}$$

$\therefore contradiction!!!$
